---
layout: splash
permalink: /
title: Home
---

# Exascale Computing Project Proxy Applications [<img src="assets/images/ecp-logo.png" alt="Drawing" style="width: 150px;"/>](https://exascaleproject.org/)

In High Performance Computing (HPC), _proxy applications_ (“apps”) are small,
simplified codes that allow application developers to share important features
of large applications without forcing partners to assimilate large and complex
code bases. This website is a common platform for researchers,
developers, and users of HPC to explore and share proxy apps.  This work is
part of the ongoing Exascale Proxy Applications Project that is part of the
Exascale Computing Project (ECP).  For more information on ECP, please visit
this [website](https://exascaleproject.org/).

### Proxy Apps

Proxy apps are often used as models for performance-critical computations, but
proxy apps can do more than just represent algorithms or computational character
of apps.  They also capture programming methods and styles that drive
requirements for compilers and other elements of the tool chain. Within ECP,
application teams, co-design centers, software technology (ST) projects and
vendors all plan to use proxies as a major mechanism to drive collaborations and
co-design solutions forexascale challenges.

### Proxy App Standards and Suite

A major goal of the Exascale Proxy Applications Project is to improve the
quality of proxies created by ECP and maximize the benefit received from their
use. To accomplish this goal, an ECP proxy app suite composed of proxies
developed by other ECP projects that represent the most important features
(especially performance) of exascale applications will be created. This suite
will be released and distributed through this [webpage](suite-apps).  To ensure
high quality of ECP proxies, we will set [standards](standards) for
documentation, build and test systems, performance models and evaluations, etc.
We will also provide templates and best practices for proxy developers to help
them meet these standards.
